my son is almost two and I've been
letting him watch cocomelon but now I
had to get him speech therapy so I can
get him to talk there are hundreds and
hundreds of anecdotes in which parents
mention the exact same problem the
cocomelon show is so insanely addictive
it's being compared to nicotine and
causing developmental issues amongst the
kids who can't stop watching children's
TV expert jerich sanss calls it the most
damaging show a child can watch
explaining the sneaky ways in which they
make the show addictive firstly there's
the colors take for example The Wheels
On The Bus the three main colors blue
green and yellow are all at maximum
saturation meaning they cannot be made
any brighter no matter how hard you try
extreme saturation is normally used for
alerts and notifications as it's
exciting Dynamic and attracts attention
which is why it's also used in slot
machines cocomelon puts these colors in
perfect contrast making them appear even
more vibrant which is different to for
example Bluey in which the colors
instead blend together COC melon's also
different because it's highly repetitive
there's a reason they have 38 videos
with over a billion views a child's
brain is wired to learn through
repetition so it feels right to them to
watch the same thing over and over again
Coco melon abuses this in almost every
video for example in the yes yes
playground song they pick a word to
repeat three times in every sentence
pairing it with a subtly repeating back
ground lullab keeping children hooked
literally no show or movie puts my son
into a deep trans the way Coco melon
does the second it's on the TV he turns
into a toddler zombie who doesn't see or
hear anything else that's going on in
the room this is only exacerbated by
Coco melon subtitles which have also
been a heavy point of criticism the
letters are not educational I can barely
raid them fast enough it's simply
another interesting element to capture
your little one's attention Millan
explains in every description our goal
is to help make learning a fun and
enjoyable experience for kids giving you
the peace of mind that your children are
receiving quality educational content
but people have argued that they're
teaching exactly what children shouldn't
do for example in the No No bedtime song
the baby refuses to brush his teeth have
a bath put on pajamas or get in bed the
education is that he eventually agrees
to do so yet a Tik Tok user was critical
stating anytime I'd ask my son to do a
simple task he'd say no no no he's
sitting there watching Coco melon which
taught him no no no and to say no to me
on the topic of Education Jerica San
stated these people don't give a
about our children they care about money
that's it your child's cognitive
development in direct exchange for their
wealth and there's pretty good evidence
supporting this a New York Times
journalist visited Coco melon Studio
discovering their number one focus is
keeping children children hooked Coco
millan's data and analytics team sifts
constantly through YouTube numbers to
determine exactly what resonates should
a girl wear black jeans or blue jeans
should the music be louder or softer
should the bus be yellow or red yellow
is the answer as they use a darker
method to ensure that they're correct
cocomelon has a dedicated distractor
Tron room in which once a month children
are brought here one at a time and shown
a handful of episodes to figure out
exactly which parts of the shows are
engaging and which are tuned out next to
the TV playing cocomelon there's a
second screen which plays a continuous
loop of bnar Real World scenes a guy
pouring a cup of coffee someone getting
a haircut each lasting about 20 seconds
whenever a youngster looks away from the
Moon bug show to Glimpse the distractor
Tron a note is jotted down we can see
what they're looking at and the exact
moment when they got distracted
therefore education clearly isn't the
primary goal keeping kids attention is
and this is proven by cocom melon's most
addictive element rapid camera cutting
it's crazy how many times the frame
changes on Coco melon it's the same type
of Addicting behavior that we experience
on a Tik Tok bench it's the Quick Change
of frame that releases that dopamine and
makes the videos addicting to watch
count the seconds between a change of
frame well Tik tocker the circus brain
did exactly this he firstly counts the
changes on My Little Pony concluding
there's about 6 seconds between each cut
he then Compares it to COC melon 1 two 1
2 3 1 2 1 2 one one TI one TI one in her
video the nightmare that is celon
savantics draws a similar conclusion she
found that 96% of the shots in baby
shark were shorter than 2 seconds she
then Compares four different animated
shows again finding Coco melon has the
shest shots the longest shot on a cocoon
video was 6 seconds the longest shot on
Arcane was 8 seconds the longest shot on
Bluey was 27 seconds and the longest
shot on encounter was 18 seconds which
when combined with every other element
creates some terrifying statistics Dr
Kristen summer explained that when
showing an infant normal video content
they'll focus on the screen just 11% of
the time however when the video is
instead switched to Coca melon their
screen engagement skyrockets to a
whopping 74%
this therefore produces stories such as
this I used to volunteer for a preschool
and they had song Time a Coco melon
video came on and all of the tots
stopped what they were doing put down
their cheesec crackers and remained
fixated on the screen for the duration
of the video it was honestly kind of
terrifying YouTuber Sab spark shared his
own personal anecdote he asked to watch
a Disney movie with his two younger
cousins who both completely refused and
instead spent all day glued to an iPad
playing the addictive show in Coco melon
made my kid a zombie a mother talks
about her son he would be in a days
while watching it you could be waving
your hand right in front of his face and
he wouldn't move it was almost scary
this was also discovered by Sarah Mills
998 who explained when the Coco melon
addiction is so real that my
one-year-old can navigate the TV to turn
it on by himself however nothing shows
the addiction better than the Coco melon
Tik Tok Trend parents will play the show
intro loudly and video their kids
sprinting toward the television where
you can witness their mood change
instantly the New York Times journalist
found something similar the kid in the
distructor tron had shown up in the
midst of a tantrum which ended the
second he heard the Coco melon theme
song it was no surprise to Wheeler the
head of research 99% of kids he said if
they're having issues when they get here
once that Coco melon song comes on
they're like ah life is okay all is good
with the world obviously there's reason
for this cocomelon is so hyp stimulating
that it actually acts as a drug and what
happens when you take the drug away
young children experiencing symptoms of
addiction and withdrawal obviously
leaving them completely disregulated Tik
Tok user the PFF One filmed what happens
when you take the show away explaining
he'll be inconsolable for at least 10 to
15 minutes after adding in the
description Coco melon meltdown is legit
once you have a taste of the cocoa it's
hard to break the addiction which this
Reddit user had experienced even worse
my husband and I have been worried about
our child I can slowly see how she'd
throw violent Tantrums at home and in
church whenever she'd get bored and
would want to watch the show her
behavior changes the moment she watches
the show and she will not even eat her
meals if she wouldn't watch it after
these tantrums end kids can experience a
general discomfort in the speed of
everyday life the more they watch the
show the more their brain begins to
expect this intense level of stimul
basically cocomelon overstimulates their
brains so much that everything else just
seems slow and boring in comparison
however the potential consequences get
much worse than this as mentioned at the
start it was the cause of a child
speaking problems with a notable reply
reading same thing happened with my
daughter too she's four but can't speak
properly she knows the words but she
does not like to frame the sentence or
speech she has been watching these Coco
melons or such other stuffs for two or
three years hope we're not too late over
on Reddit a speech language pathologist
explained screen time in general is
linked with speech delays for a variety
of reasons but Coco melon is excessively
bad firstly unlike other TV shows or
movies it doesn't have a story it's just
very short clips with poorly written
songs The Kids Aren't aable to follow
the plot learn vocabulary and see the
resolution of a conflict supported by
infant specialist Meg for and the
problem with fuss Pac TV programs is
that we find that little On's language
development is slower on the Agents of
speech Youtube channel this is again
confirmed the main problem with watching
videos on the Internet is that they
don't know how to use the language that
they learn but he adds that four to 5
hours of screen time per day can make a
toddler completely nonverbal 4 to 5
hours is obviously a lot of time but in
Coco melon made my kid a zombie
researchers discovered that 5-year-olds
who watch more than 2 hours of TV a day
tended to have lower attention spans and
were 7.7 times more likely to show
symptoms of ADHD the screen times might
be even lower for Cocoa melon
specifically because as explained by
Jericho Sans not all screen time is
created equal a child who just watched
30 minutes of Coco melon and a child who
just watch 30 minutes of trash truck
will look like a very very different
child thankfully here lies a simple
solution Sierra Renee explained my
2-year-old is speech delayed and
addicted to Coco melon switched to miss
Rachel 2 days ago and he's already
saying more words and hasn't had any
tantrum kim. it shared an almost
identical anecdote my 8-month-old was
obsessed with cocomelon and having bad
Tantrums so I canceled cocomelon and
only let her watch Miss Rachel and she
said her first word within the first 3
days of watching clearly parents are
able to Simply change the channel but
not before leaving celon a massive
amount of dislikes they've therefore
earned the title the absurdly popular
kid show parents hate and Coco melon has
has actually responded to the criticism
that explain our shows are not intended
to replace outdoor playtime or playdates
they have a place in Children's
Entertainment time and as with food
exercise Etc it comes down to each
parent to find the right and appropriate
balance for their children our
responsibility is ensuring that the
quality of the content that we produce
is high and beneficial for the
development of a child's cognitive and
soft skills it is worth adding that our
social media communities are filled with
stories of parents who experience
firsthand how Moon bug content helps
their children celon does have a crazy
amount of supporters but it's obvious
that some of them are simply ignoring
the downsides my baby learned the
alphabet and numbers from cocomelon she
may not speak a complete sentence but
she expresses her wants through phrases
but is it Coco melon's responsibility to
ensure that babies are talking well no
people love blaming cartoons and games
for raising children and not the shitty
parents that don't step in to stop them
from watching so much cocomelon is
actually a really sad symbol of parents
giving their children tablets instead of
actually parenting and interacting with
them ultimately parents are the people
who choose how much their child consumes